---
title: What are distributed teams?
---

Others might have their own definitions and criteria, but these are the key
attributes I associate with distributed teams:

 - Working towards a shared goal
 - No requirement to be co-located
 - Not restricted to a single timezone

Let me explain how I've settled on each item in this list.

### A Shared Goal

The team should be aligned and focused on acheiving a certain goal - whether
it's a short-term project that takes weeks or perhaps working on a product that
might evolve over a period of mmonths or years. Knowing the goal helps to know
who is considered "core" to achieving the goal, versus those who fall into of a
"stakeholder" role on the outside. Goals may also require collaborating with
other teams inside a company - let's call those "partner teams".

The configurations of teams will vary from situation, but being able to identify
who belongs in each categories is helpful to keep in mind when it comes to
things like communications and meetings:

 - the core will likely be working very closely together
 - the core may need to collaborate with partner teams to achieve their goal,
   but the partner teams will not need to be working closely with the core team
 - stakeholders are not involved with details and exeution, but it should be
   easy for them to follow along from the outside

I'll expand more on this later on, as it's especially relevant to topics like
communications.

### Not co-located

Working in the same space does have it's upsides, but this doesn't need to be
the default for a team. Being able to tap your colleague on the shoulder to ask
a question is very convenient, but it'd be great to not require that sort of
closeness when working together.

I believe there are plenty of tools available to subsitute for typical
interactions that a team has, as well as enabling newer types of collaboration.

That's not to say that distributed teams should never meet and work in the same
space. It's great to gather with your colleagues from time to time, and events
like project planning or strategic meetings can benefit from the close, even
intense, collaboration that occurs when you're all same space.

But that doesn't need to happen every day.

### Multiple timezones

Not everyone has the same daily routine. Some people are early risers. Others
may feel more productive in the evenings. And some people may like to adapt
their work around other commitments, like taking their children to and from
school. What if our teams were able to work like this?

It takes time and cohesion for a team to be able to work together when
spread over different timezones. But I think it's within the realm of everyone
to be able to work how they prefer, when supported by the company itself. And
when timezone differences are no longer a limitation, it becomes possible to
hire from around the world.

*TODO*

## Why isn't "remote" enough?

*TODO*
